---
layout: post
title:
  br: Falecimento do Prof. Viktor Pastoukhov
  en: Passing of Prof. Viktor Pastoukhov
image: /assets/images/people/docentes/viktor.jpg
caption:
  br: "Prof. Viktor Pastoukhov"
  en: "Prof. Viktor Pastoukhov"
---

{% contentfor br %}

*por Simone Colombo*

Com muito pesar comunicamos o falecimento do Prof. Dr. Viktor Pastoukhov, Professor da Escola de Engenharia de Lorena (EEL) da USP.  Prof. Viktor era natural de Samara (Rússia) e morava no Brasil há 30 anos.

Sua área de conhecimento era Mecânica dos Sólidos. Na EEL ministrou aulas na pós-graduação em Engenharia de Materiais como Professor visitante nos anos de 1995 a 1996. Ingressou ao corpo docente da USP em 2013.

No tempo em que esteve conosco, além de se dedicar à pesquisa e à docência atuou como Chefe do Departamento de Engenharia de Materiais e como Vice-prefeito do Campus da USP de Lorena.

Aos amigos e familiares, nossa solidariedade por essa grande perda para todos nós.

{% endcontentfor %}

{% contentfor en %}

*by Simone Colombo*

With great sadness we communicate the death of Prof. Dr. Viktor Pastoukhov, Professor at the School of Engineering of Lorena (EEL) at USP.

Prof. Viktor was born in Samara (Russia) and lived in Brazil for 30 years.  His area of ​​expertise was Solid Mechanics. At EEL, he taught postgraduate courses in Materials Engineering as a visiting professor from 1995 to 1996. He joined the faculty of USP in 2013. During the time he was with us, in addition to dedicating himself to research and teaching, he served as Head of the Materials Engineering Department and as Vice-Mayor of the USP Campus in Lorena.

To friends and family, our solidarity for this great loss for all of us.

{% endcontentfor %}
